README.md, before:

# Brainfuck.NET

This is a compiler for [Brainfuck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brainfuck) using .NET written in C#. The eventual goal is to compile Brainfuck source into valid IL code, which can be executed by the .NET runtime.

I felt inspired while following the [Compiler from scratch](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLRAdsfhKI4OWNOSfS7EUu5GRAVmze1t2y) adventures by [@terrajobst](https://twitter.com/terrajobst), and wanted to see if I could apply some of the same lessons to an [esoteric programming language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esoteric_programming_language) like Brainfuck.

## Language design

Brainfuck consists of an instruction pointer, a data pointer, some amount of memory and 8 simple instructions.

The instruction pointer starts at `0` and moves forward by `1` after each instruction (with exceptions). After the last instruction, the program terminates.

Memory is an array of bytes that is initialized with all `0`. The data pointer starts by pointing at the first address. Memory can then be manipulated at the current address and the pointer can be moved using the instructions.

The 8 instructions are as follows:

instruction | description
------------|-------------
`>`         | Increment the data pointer by one.
`<`         | Decrement the data pointer by one.
`+`         | Increment the value of the memory at current location by one.
`-`         | Decrement the value of the memory at current location by one.
`.`         | Output the value at the current location.
`,`         | Read one byte of input and store the value at current location.
`[`         | Jump forward to matching `]`, if value at current location is `0`
`]`         | Jump backwards to matching `[`, if value at current location is *not* `0`

To be a valid program, `[` and `]` should always match as a pair. Nesting is also valid.

Any character that is not in the list of valid instructions should simply be ignored, similar to whitespace in most regular programming languages.

Commit message:

Adds status badge.
Also reworded the README file slightly.

README.md, after:

# Brainfuck.NET

![.NET 5](https://github.com/simonbondo/Brainfuck.NET/workflows/.NET%205/badge.svg)

This is a compiler for [Brainfuck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brainfuck) written in C# targeting .NET 5. The eventual goal is to compile Brainfuck source into valid IL code, which can be executed by the .NET runtime.

I felt inspired while following the [Compiler from scratch](http://minsk-compiler.net/) adventures by [@terrajobst](https://twitter.com/terrajobst), where he creates a compiler for the made-up language [Minsk](https://github.com/terrajobst/Minsk). I wanted to see if I could apply some of the same lessons to an [esoteric programming language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esoteric_programming_language) like Brainfuck.

## How Brainfuck works

Brainfuck consists of an instruction pointer, a data pointer, some amount of memory and 8 simple instructions.

The instruction pointer starts at *0* and advances forward by *1* after executing each instruction. After the last instruction, the program terminates.

Memory is an array of bytes that is all initialized at zero. The data pointer starts by pointing to the first address. Memory can then be manipulated at the current address and the pointer can be moved using the instructions.

The 8 instructions are as follows:

instruction | description
------------|-------------
`>`         | Increment the data pointer by one (move it to the right).
`<`         | Decrement the data pointer by one (move it to the left).
`+`         | Increment the value of the memory at current location by one.
`-`         | Decrement the value of the memory at current location by one.
`.`         | Output the value at the current location.
`,`         | Read one byte of input and replace the value at current location.
`[`         | Jump forward to matching `]`, if value at current location is `0`.
`]`         | Jump backwards to matching `[`, if value at current location is *not* `0`.

To be a valid program, the number of `[` and `]` should be balanced, meaning they always come in pairs. Nesting is allowed.

Any character that is not in the list of valid instructions should simply be ignored, similar to how whitespace is treated in most regular programming languages.
